we all grow up seeing images of lawyers
and courtrooms in the movies and other
forms of fiction and I think we all like
to imagine that the difference between
guilty and not guilty has something like
a fifty-fifty chance so when you see
that more than ninety nine percent of
people in Japan are found guilty it's
shocking you wonder is there something
wrong with this statistic is there
something I'm missing is there a
footnote somewhere that's going to
explain to me how it is possible that
ninety-nine point nine percent of court
cases in Japan are found guilty that
almost nobody is ever not guilty in
Japan or is there something I'm missing
here comparisons are odious but
comparisons are inevitable when you look
at this chart it's obvious that Japan is
much closer to Communist China in terms
of the percentage of people who are
found to be innocent in its courtrooms
keeping things in perspective I think
the vast majority of Canadians would be
shocked to hear that only three percent
of people who go to trial are ever found
to be innocent are acquitted in court
however in Canada there's a gray area
shown here on this chart as a green area
of cases that are suspended thrown out
of court under different headings that
neither conclude as guilty nor not
guilty so only sixty-six percent are
found guilty and only three percent are
acquitted as not guilty could it be that
there's something we're missing in the
Japanese statistic doesn't it seem like
a sort of strangely rounded number 99
percent versus point one percent mmm
this is one of the reasons why I took
some time to look into this another
reason was that when i was living in
taiwan i was actually really interested
in legal system their legal culture and
i was considering the long term option
of going to law school in taiwan to
becoming a lawyer there so when i
started studying japanese as a language
and looking at japan
I was starting to look at the Japanese
legal system a bit too what i've found
is pretty dismaying taiwan is another
interesting comparison because taiwan is
culturally chinese although they also
have strong historical links to japan
and if you want to know what percentage
of people are acquitted in taiwan or
found not guilty it is twelve percent a
much healthier number than either canada
or japan can boast of so I went to the
Japanese government's on websites I got
the raw statistics in spreadsheet form
and I made my own charts here and I was
looking through all the footnotes and
details and looking at how the
categories were defined because I was
imagining that the ninety-nine point
nine percent statistic must be wrong
there must be some other category like
dismissal or what have you that accounts
for more people being found innocent or
at least kicked out of court before they
found guilty and they got bad news
ninety-nine point nine percent is
accurate and although the statistic
varies a little bit from one year to the
next it varies mostly because the total
number of cases brought into court is
different from one unit to the next if
you look at the red line the top of the
screen there some years more cases go to
trial than others so this chart
basically just zooms in to give you the
detail on how many people go to court
and how many people are found not guilty
but the numbers are so astoundingly low
that basically almost nobody is ever
innocent in Japan in 1996 only 54 people
were found not guilty in the whole year
in 2004 it was only a hundred and
thirteen so coming back to our first
chart it may be unfair to condemn the
entire Japanese justice system on the
basis of this statistic alone but it
certainly is cause for concern and we
have to ask ourselves if we're going to
get into making excuses for Japan would
we make any of those same excuses for
the People's Republic of China when the
two countries have shockingly very
similar statistics in this regard
since the year 2007 the Japanese
government itself has acknowledged that
part of the problem is that Japan's
system of trials does not use juries
that's correct there are no jury's in
Japan there hasn't been a single trial
by jury since nineteen forty-three
juries were abolished during the period
of fascist dictatorship and strangely
they were never reinstated the country
just never went back to using them so
quizzically since 2009 japan has been
experimenting with the system of lay
judges or citizen judges involving
common people as judges during the first
trial but their rates of acquittal their
rates of finding people not guilty are
also very low and unfortunately you only
have access to those lay judges this
modified system during your first trial
never during a court of appeal a
secondary trail or what have you so even
if you are found not guilty that can be
overturned and you can still be
convicted as you can imagine there is
very little written about this subject
in English and even less of it is
carefully researchable informed i found
one really good article from 2011 in the
columbia east asian review and i'll
provide a link to that below this video
but at the time that article was written
only a single case with this new system
of mixed judges new lay judges had
actually been acquitted and again the
lay judge system is still not a jury
system it's a sort of careful half step
toward having some representation of
normal public people although not quite
juries the one theme you find again and
again throughout the articles on this
subject whether they're newspaper
articles magazine articles or formally
footnoted academic work is the concern
that judges lawyers bureaucrats and
police all assume you are guilty from
the moment you are accused in Japan that
there is not really a sincere system of
tree
people as being innocent until they're
proven guilty nor even a system of
evaluating proof now of course most of
those arguments are anecdotal most of
them rely on appeals to emotion and now
in just the last few years more and more
they have relied on videotape evidence
just like controversies that are
happening the United States videotape
evidence of how the police force people
to confess to crimes how police
procedure actually happens in Japan and
then what use is made of those police
findings in court although Japan has
cultural and procedural differences from
other countries just like Canada does
and so on it's impossible to imagine any
culture in which legitimately 99.9
percent of people accused of a crime
would be found guilty in Japan it looks
like a problem because it is a problem
and at least since 2007 the Government
of Japan themselves have admitted it's a
problem and are now attempting some kind
of positive reform